* amsplot.r - plot amsterdam neighborhood data geographically.

generate plots like this with a single line of code:

[[file:./plots/hou_value_in_2019.png]]


** installation

if you're familiar with git, i would recommend cloning it to some directory and
loading the source file from there directly.

for the non-gitters, you can download a zip (green button in the top right
labelled "Code"). put that somewhere on your computer, and then load the
=amsplot.r= package with the following line of R code (replace the filepath):

=source('~/the/path/to/amsplot.r', chdir=TRUE)=

** how did you make this?

well, honestly, just googling around for stuff like "display geographical data
r" and "display values in geographical areas r". then i copied over the code,
read it, and changed a bunch to make it work with the amsterdam data.

i strongly encourage you to read through the code and my comments. hopefully
you learn something from that!

** on a personal note

in programming and development, an INCREDIBLE amount of work is done by
open-source developers -- often in their free time, often completely for
free. without their efforts, the process of programming would be WAY more
labourious, and technology would not be as far as it is today; probably, lots
of the software we take for granted would not exist today. the programming
community is heavily based on the open sharing of knowledge and code, and
people helping other people out: you yourself have probably gotten a lot of
help from stackoverflow by now. i, in my five+ years of coding experience, have
used it daily, and continue to do so, and i think that's the case for most
programmers.  i've learnt so much from the community in the last five years,
and have depended so much on the efforts by open-source programmers (by
literally /millions/ of people), that i want to take any chance i have to give
back to the community. (and in this case, that's you, my co-MADE-students!)
that's why i provide this script for you, and why i took extra efforts in
commenting it.  to get the most out of this script, read the code line-by-line,
and try to figure out what it does and why it needs to be there. hopefully, the
comments help out with that.

i encourage you, if you continue in coding endeavours, to give back to the
community! try to answer a stackoverflow question, or make a contribution to an
open-source project. you'll learn from it, and we can continue this magical
cycle of the passing on of knowledge.

also, i'm always happy to help with any questions you have (as long as i get to
finish my code too ;)

love! j
